TitreCours: Managerial Decision-making
DescriptionCours: COURSE DESCRIPTION Decision-making is a quintessential aspect of management, but the manager whose role it is to make decisions is confronted with a difficult task. With the development of ever more sophisticated technologies, the amount of information (reliable or not) available to managers is often overwhelming ¿ and will only increase with time. Managers are regularly faced with "non-programmable" decisions about which course of action to take in the face of many uncertainties, decisions which must often be made much more rapidly than they would like, and which often have the potential to profoundly affect their organizations and their collaborators. In some business situations, these decisions can perhaps be made analytically and "optimally." But more often than not, managers do not have enough time or all the right information to engage in extensive analytical decision-making. In most cases, they have to rely on their judgment, intuition, experience and the like. But is one decision approach "better" than another, and if so, when? In this course, we will be thinking critically about how we make decisions; we will learn to identify the individual, group and organizational factors that can influence our decision making; and we will learn how to identify and avoid some common decision errors.  OBJECTIVES OF THE COURSE Students will learn about the various approaches to decision making that have been proposed in the managerial literature, and will be encouraged to think about the strengths and limitations of these. They will be provided with a number of occasions (through cases, exercises and tests) to identify the strengths and weaknesses of their own particular decision making styles and preferences. In the end, they will have a better understanding of the factors (rational, non-rational ¿) that influence their own decision making and that of others, and possess a set of tools with which to sharpen and improve their decision making skills.  &nbsp;  TEACHING APPROACH  This course is based on active and participative pedagogy, with an important experiential component. The heart of the learning experience will come from the cases we will be analysing and discussing in class and from the exercises and simulations that will be distributed during class sessions. A number of conceptual and theoretical texts are also included in order to help students reflect on the nature of the managerial decision making process. Students will also be asked to personally reflect on an important past decision they themselves have made. A note about the readings: Sometimes the readings for a particular session are directly related to a case we are discussing in that session, sometimes they are included because they bring an important or interesting perspective to the aspect of the decision making process we are considering. This means that you need to read the texts critically and decide what is relevant to a case and what is not. Do not try to "jam" the cases to fit into the concepts in the articles, as sometimes the two may be unrelated.&nbsp;
