TitreCours: Corporate Performance Diagnosis : A total Quality Approach
DescriptionCours: Managers have always sought the help of internal and external consultants. Today, more than anytime before they are seeking their help to face the rapid and constant changes in their business environments. These changes affect deeply the social, technological, economical, political, and ecological environments (STEPE. The challenge resides in the fact that these changes are that they affect the way enterprises buy, produce, and sell their products ¿ goods and/or services, the way managers deal with suppliers and customers as well as, internally with the people who work for the company.  The relatively stable environment of the years up to the 70s and 80s is quite different from the new environment of the 90s and the 00s (2000-2005). Externally oriented management is systematically replacing the internally focused management practices of the pre-90s years. Many practices have been, and are still being developed and each one of them is presented by "specialized" consultants leaving the managers puzzled by the advices which differ widely, depending on the consultant they call upon to improve their business performance.  This course presents a systemic and systematic step-by-step approach and relevant practices in an integrated framework that have been used and tested successfully by many enterprises. The course covers the essential preconditions to a successful intervention, the basics of a detailed and complete business diagnosis, starting with an externally oriented (Extroversive Management) PTOWS analysis. It offers an integrated business model based on our Total Quality approach. This consists of the satisfaction of the needs of the three main enterprise stakeholders: the company's shareholders, customers, and people, working harmoniously with upstream and downstream partners and helping the company to achieve corporate citizenship. It presents a step-by-step approach to problem identification, solving and prevention, which has been successfully implement in many businesses. It has been designed and developed and draws on the professor's experience in internal and external consulting, having worked on a number of local, national, and international projects.  The model, the approach, and the techniques presented in this course are applied on a real life case study, gradually all along the course.
